I have had a complicated relationship
with the Google pixel phones over the
years I've always said that at their
very core these phones are special they
have this beautifully animated friendly
customizable software that's always
capable of doing a few things so
intelligent that they're practically
indistinguishable from Magic but at the
same time these phones make me rage
because so far there's always been a
blocker significant enough issues that
distract you from being able to focus on
that delightful software I've had build
quality issues I've had overheating
issues I've had signal issues
inconsistent camera issues and just
generally the phone's being quite a bit
slower than the competition issues so
that puts this new pixel 9 Pro and the 9
Pro XL which is the one I've been mainly
using in a very interesting position
they have a lot to prove but if they can
prove it then I mean these could
basically become my favorite phones ever
so this is how the pixel 9 Pro and the
pro XL come presented it's a pretty box
but sadly it's also a pretty empty box
you get the phone you get a cable and
there's a Sim ejector somewhere in here
well at least it makes my job quicker
here's the thing though this is the best
built pixel ever it feels almost exactly
like an iPhone 15 Pro Max when you pick
it up very similar Dimensions very
similar flat sides with a slight curve
and it's the same weight down to the
gram I remember reading a post saying
that way more of the people who buy
pixels are actually X iPhone users as
opposed to X Samsung so I'd be very
surprised if this similarity wasn't
intentional to even further entice Apple
Fans who are still on the fence but
either way I mean this as a compliment
to the pixel the sides are grippier than
their pass phones it looks and feels
just really classy especially with these
thinner completely even screen bezels
and this is also easily the most solidly
constructed phone Google has ever made
it doesn't Flex one bit and if you
haven't already seen it I'd say it very
much passed the Gerry rig durability
test I've kind of been getting the
feeling over the last few years that the
pixel would end up as yet another one of
those canned Google projects you know
the classic downward spiral where things
aren't quite there with a tech product
so then it doesn't sell well so then it
makes less money so then it gets less
investment and never improves because of
that besides Google is specifically
famous for cancelling projects but
getting a significant redesign like this
feels like a reassurance that Google is
still very much kicking around Google is
still determined to keep trying to
become a definitive part of this
Smartphone War and the more that you use
this phone the more you realize why
that's so important to them but I'll get
there oh also I don't normally talk
about cases but if you're going to make
one this is how it's done this thing is
addictively soft it shows up no
fingerprints no light scratches it
gently swoops around the camera module
giving you this soft lip to rest your
fingers against there's nice felt on the
inside a metal logo and metal buttons
which actually match the remaining
visible part of the phone and the
sprinkle on top is that the fit is
perfect every single cutout is exactly
centralized which well you'd be
surprised how often that doesn't happen
and you know what design is not the only
thing that's on the up here the optical
fingerprint scanner that we used to have
that was one of my major gripes this new
pixel switches that out for an
ultrasonic scanner it's basically firing
out sound waves instead of light to map
out The Ridges of your fingers but the
upside of that is that it gives the
phone basically a three-dimensional
understanding of your prints so it's
more reliable and you really feel that I
haven't had any signal issues and while
it's hard to say anything conclusive
about signal because there's just so
many factors I do a pretty regular 2 and
1/2 hour trip from Nottingham my
hometown to London on the motorway and
the signal is famously patchy on this
though I was actually flitting between
4G and 5G almost the entire time with
only two 5minute bursts of nothing so
it's looking likely that the new modem
on the inside of this pixel is doing its
job the general feel of using the phone
is it's Flawless it's the best honestly
every single animation has an
accompanying feeling generated by the
vibration motor even things like a
gentle hum as you slide up and down your
brightness plus I've not had a single
bug which low bar I realized but that
automatically makes this the most stable
pixel launch in history the battery
is actually the battery is not charged
so it's on 8% right now let's just plug
it into our shiny new anchor Prime power
station but yeah the battery life on
these Pros is enough I wouldn't call it
sparkling I'm talking 6 and 1/2 hours of
screen on time on the smaller Pro and 7
on the XL Which is less than my Samsung
but enough for almost anyone and it
feels like Google's gained control of
their overheating problem I mean the
solution wasn't rocket science they just
finally caught up and put a vapor
chamber in the phone like their
competitors have been doing for ages
that has a lot of KnockOn effects it
means that the screen which is bright
and pretty Delicious By the way doesn't
dim minutes after I take it out on a hot
day the camera seems to record
continuously without stuttering and
games don't dramatically slow down with
persistent play in fact I did whip out
the good old 3D Mark extreme stress test
to put some numbers to this feeling and
found that while Galaxy s24 Ultra had
57% stability meaning that by the end of
this 30 minute or so stress test it was
only running at 57% of the performance
it started with the pixel retained
71.7 now that's not the full story cuz
while the pixel's stability score is
higher its performance to start with is
so much lower that even with more
stability there isn't a single point in
this test where it's better than the s24
ultra every year performance has been a
classic pixel weakness that every year
Google seems to to keep addressing by
just slapping that AI Band-Aid on top
and this new phone isn't completely free
of that curse either the new tensor G4
chip that you find inside of the pixel9
pros it is still noticeably less fast
than the chip inside the best from
Samsung Apple OnePlus all of those
companies top end phones make basically
every action instant whereas the pixel
still feels like it enjoys its thinking
time you know little things like it
taking just a split second for the full
resolution image to load when you zoom
into it and the phone's storage speed
might have something to do with that too
I ran multiple tests and the pixel comes
out as significantly slower in terms of
sequential read and write speeds than
Samsung which would explain why it takes
longer to load things and I'm just going
to be brutally honest this disparity
felt like an acceptable compromise when
Google was charging $900 for a pro pixel
but now we're at
$1,100 it needs to get on that level
that said in a way it's actually better
than I thought it would be I was
expecting gaming for example to be a
flop but this is Zen Zone zero this is
as difficult as mobile games get to run
and I've played this for an hour at a
time on absolutely maxed out settings
with no issues apart from some slightly
toasty side rails and also this chip
combined with now 16 GB of RAM by
default seems to drastically speed up AI
tasks I'm talking like 50% faster than
they used to be which was much needed
one of the key things that got to me
with last year's pixel 8s was how St the
difference was between how easy and
instant Google made AI photo editing
look at their launch events versus the
fiddly reality of it on the phones made
many times worse by the 5 to 10c loading
time in between every single action and
so the fact that this stuff is so much
faster here it already starts to
alleviate my blood pressure as for all
the new AI stuff they announced I'd say
most of it feels a little half-baked
which is a phrase I think I've used to
describe every single AI phone this year
but there are three things three things
I absolutely love the thing that they
spent most of the time talking about was
this one called ad me where if you want
to take a group shot but you don't want
to ask someone to take the photo you can
separately take each person's shot and
Google software can merge them together
into one and while I would say that is
very impressive from a technical
perspective I just don't think I'd ever
use it I've never really had a situation
where I've wanted to take a group shot
and I haven't been able to find someone
to take that shot and if you can find
someone then that still feels like the
better option to me cuz that way you
don't have to do this little fiddle you
don't have to take two separate shots
you don't have the risk that it doesn't
quite turn out the way you expected
which as we all know there is a very
decent chance of with any AI feature and
also you know it's just that your end
result then is a photo of a real moment
which maybe I'm oldfashioned but I still
think that counts for something there's
a whole new app now for image generation
called pixel Studio but to be honest
while it can generate some pretty quick
Nic looking images from scratch based on
a prompt it's nothing new or better than
what's out there it needs wi-fi even
though it's supposedly running on device
and when you want to use it to mess with
photos you've already taken it's
extremely limited and fiddly with the
selection tool being practically
dysfunctional and like what in Earth is
this why are the two key options for
your next Generation AI photo editing
app to add a caption or add a sticker
this would have been cool if we were
still living in the year 2000 the
phone's assistant is in a slightly weird
place basically this phone's default
assistant is Gemini Gemini is more
heavily AI powered it's way smarter but
it also seems to have a lot of
limitations with how it can interact
with your apps and also doesn't do some
of the more basic things that Google
Assistant used to do so it feels like
we're at this pretty clumsy middle phase
where you get both and you can switch
between them depending on the feature
set you want which makes me feel very
much like a beta tester oh but the magic
editor is starting to get pretty
interesting though I was playing around
yesterday with the feature that allows
you to zoom out of a photo that's
already been taken and I couldn't
believe it like look at this shot I
click the autof framing button and Bam
it's understood that this wooden beam
along the top has got to continue it's
understood that there's an extra step
here and it's estimated what it's likely
to look like it's understood that the
trees are thinning around here so when
it zooms out it's making sure that you
can see more of the sky there the idea
of this feature isn't new the execution
of it very much is and you can now
reimagine photos which can actually be
very powerful and very convincing I
remember my jaw practically hitting a
floor when I managed to change my cat
into a dog I mean what the Google the
only thing I would say is it's a real
hit to the features usefulness that you
can't use it on shots of people there's
a new pixel screenshots app which also
falls into the category of pretty good I
actually think it's great that there's a
separate app to manage screenshots cuz
the reasons that I want to find
screenshots are always very different to
the reasons that I might want to browse
my gallery and while what the app does
is not distinctly different to what most
phones can already do by allowing you to
search for things within your
screenshots it is one layer more
intelligent because your phone can not
just look at the specific info in the
screenshots but also use AI to take one
step back and understand what the
screenshot is meaning you're way more
likely to be able to find it based on a
Vaga description the first thing that I
absolutely love though is Gemini live
it's it's basically the AI that you're
used to but in a much more free flowing
way than I think we've ever experienced
you talk you listen you can talk over
the AI there are no trigger buttons or
trigger words it allows you to have
something that very closely resembles a
real human conversation let's do a
little live demo I'm debating between
going for an Android phone or an iPhone
I'm a simple person what would you
recommend okay choosing between Android
and iPhone can be tough iPhones are
known for being really userfriendly and
straightforward they're a good choice if
you want a phone that's easy to set up
and just works all right then Google
thank you U but what I also like about
it is that when you wanted to stop
talking you don't need to say anything
or do anything you just say what you
want to say and it will slowly reduce
its own volume and listen and I actually
think that makes it a really powerful
tool because it becomes like a a live
bouncing board like I was chatting to it
last night I said I'm going to have some
people over what could I do for dinner
that's a bit different it said why don't
you theme it I was like great idea we
chatted for another 3 to 4 minutes and
by the end of it I had a complete menu
plan for my Pokmon themed dinner
including the salad I would use to
represent grass types and the spicy
curry I'd use to repres presentes fire
types now as for the other two AI
features that I think are amazing
they're both within the camera so let's
talk cameras the rear set of cameras
have almost identical Hardware to last
year's phone so that's a 50 map main 48
map Ultra wide and then a 48 map five
times optical zoom and so it's probably
not shocking news to learn that the base
quality of photos feels not that
different from last year so that means
good color reproduction a very strong
ability to handle High dynamic range
scenarios and control those bright spots
very comparable levels of detail to
Samsung's highest end Galaxy s24 Ultra
but then a night mode that's good but
just a little softer than Samsung's and
a portrait mode that I think it's fair
to say falls behind like look at the
edge detection here versus the Galaxy it
really gives itself away as a phone
photo and upsettingly many of the
frustrations I had with last year's
phone are also still present here
zooming in and out is still very laggy
it makes it feel unpolished the camera
preview can still get grainy even if the
end photos are not the transition
between lenses feels jumpy there's weird
limitations like you can't use your five
time zoom lens to take portraits nor can
you use it for slowo with instead the
phone opting for some very poor quality
digital zoom and this really cool
cinematic blur mode is 1080p only but
the front camera is new this is now a 42
map sensor that's the reason for the
Fairly large cutout and I'll take it it
lets you go super wide if you want to
get those group shots I don't think I've
ever seen a phone go wider than this but
also I was pleasantly surprised by the
detail and you can also shoot some
pretty solid 4K video because yes Google
has put some work in to bring up the
video quality on the pixels 2 and that
leads me on to the AI feature video
boost it's kind of strange but when
you're taking video on this phone this
only works on your rear cameras by the
way you have the option to boost that
video If you select the option then your
phone will keep the footage largely
unprocessed so that the next time you're
on Wi-Fi it can upload it to the cloud
and get Google's superpowered data
centers to process it even better than
your phone itself could it improves the
colors the dynamic range the
stabilization it can completely rescue
grainy footage taken in low light which
was one of the biggest weaknesses of
past pixel phones it can even upgrade
the resolution to 8K and it's one of
those features that you feel like it
shouldn't work it almost sounds like
some kind of elaborate
scam but it does I guess you could say
there is a hidden cost associated with
it though cuz like if you want 8K video
boosted content you're going to need a
heck of a lot of cloud storage
specifically Google Cloud Storage you'll
need about 800 mb per minute of it and
also you need to be very careful with
this phone about joining other people's
data hotspots cuz your phone will pick
them up as Wi-Fi networks and before you
know it you could have burnt through 10
gbt of their data obliviously boosting
your videos in the background without
you even realizing I know this from
personal experience doesn't make you
popular but it's this kind of stuff that
reminds you why Google never stops
trying with the pixels cuz I mean like
if this phone succeeds so do all of
their services and not just Google
photos but also their Gemini AI because
this phone is the best possible portal
through which to funnel people to them
it's also very clear that this is why
Google is like the only Company still
shipping a top-of-the-line Pro phone
starting with just 128 GB of onboard
storage which to be honest combined with
it costing a whole $100 extra just to
get to
256 feels lowkey diabolical to me ah but
then here is the other thing about this
camera the zoom Zoom see the big tin
super res Zoom feature the pixels have
is already good like when you zoom in 30
times and you take the shot a surprising
amount of improvement is made after that
capture to the point where I would say
the pixel's long-range Zoom shots are
already 95% as good as those on
Samsung's s24 Ultra and that's one of
that phone's key selling points but then
add in the new Zoom enhance AI feature
on top of that and Samsung gets
absolutely murdered now this obviously
does open a can of worms cuz what Google
is doing here is inventing detail it's
not completely consistent and it's
perfectly possible that this texture
it's creating isn't completely real so
is it actually the better zoom camera I
guess that's up to you but which image
would I rather have that's pretty clear
it's the Google the final thing I would
add about cameras is the very underrated
panorama mode this is the best phone for
taking panoramas it makes them really
easy to take they're super detailed and
each photo is stitched together
extremely seamlessly okay so is this
phone good yes it is the pixel 9 Pro
either improves upon or completely fixes
about 70% of my issues with past pixels
everything from cameras to Performance
to AI it does that with classic Google
perks like this joyous software and 7
years of Android updates with then
extras that I didn't even know I wanted
like this big redesign or well actually
forget the redesign look at this case I
really like this thing the key cons are
just well you're basically paying $1,200
for the XL model cuz no one wants a
flagship phone with just 128 GB of
storage and it's still not as fast as
the competition okay it's been an hour
and the phone is on
67% while I've been using it the whole
time and you want to know why it's
because of the new anchor Prime charging
station the company has sponsoring this
video but that doesn't change the fact
that this is the new gold standard for a
setup it's got a total output of 250
wats so 1 cable into here and this thing
can happily charge your laptop three
phones and two other gadgets all at full
speed plus it's got a 2.26 in LCD
interactive charging display which gives
you immediate updates on charging status
and speed but there is more there's a
new fusion power bank which is so cool
because this is basically a full-on wall
charger and then as soon as you want to
go somewhere you automatically have a
fully charged 9,600 mAh battery pad not
to mention the docking station which is
this absolutely ridiculous 14 in1
charging and data transfer solution you
can turn a desk like this into a desk
like this with one of these this stuff
right here is no exaggeration currently
the top contenders for what we're going
to be kitting out are nextg studio with
so check out the full anchor Prime
lineup in the link below